---
layout: post
title: Classification using Logistic Regression on Loans
---

First, I imported my dataset with only the columns relevant to the features specified in the project assignment (predictor variables). Afterwards, I went through the data cleaning process. 
The first step in cleaning the data was to remove all rows that were were blank or had NA’s. Afterwards, I got rid of all the “Current” from the home_ownership column as the assignment specified for 
it to be removed. I created a variable to randomly select 1000 rows of dat from this so that the Monte Carlo Simulation would take significantly less time to run. A new column “target” was created 
to represent Good/Bad Loans with Good ones being assigned to “In Grace Period” and “Fully Paid”, all the remaining ones were considered Bad. The Loan % column was stripped off the “%” sign and the term 
column was stripped off “months”. The Founded Amounts, Annual Income, and DTI were converted to Float/String. A dummy variable was created for the term (original “Term variable later removed) and only 1
of 2 created variables kept to avoid autocorrelation problems. The same procedure was done with the Homes being broken out between Mortgage, Own and Rent with the original and one of the three above 
columns being removed from dataset to avoid redundancy and autocorrelation. Several histograms and scatterplots and a seaborn plot were created to have some sense of the data. 

I created a logistic regression: y = a0 + a1*x + a2*x +….. a7*x as my likelihood function. The prior was based on the log of the normal distribution. The log posterior is the sum of the log prior and log
likelihood (Full Bayesian approach). Than I setup the Monte Carlo simulation to sample using 20 walkers and a sample of 500 out of the already narrowed subset of 1000 people (for time constraints). 
Afterwards, I calculated the value of every parameter and used the sigmoid function to predict the probability of a Good/Bad loan for the first customer.


